The manuscript presents the 48-member Noah-MP simulations in CONUS and the evaluation results. Common terrestrial water budget variables are provided. A comprehensive evaluation is performed based on multi-source reference dataset. The manuscript is well written. The dataset will be useful for diverse applications. I think the manuscript is suitable for publication on ESSD. Below are some comments which could be useful to the authors.

RC: The dataset is not developed by this paper according to the description in the manuscript. For example, Fei et al. (2021), which is a publication of the same authors, already evaluated part of the 48-member Noah-MP model outputs. However, the description in the manuscript is kind of misleading (e.g., the abstract and line 79), making the readers have an impression that this manuscript runs the ensemble simulation. I recommend that the authors re-organize relevant contents, clearly stating the development and evaluation history of the 48-member simulations, and the role of this manuscript (e.g., evaluation and data release?) in the introduction part.
AR: Thanks for the suggestion. We have revised the abstract, introduction, and conclusions for clarification: (1) in the abstract, we revised the text as "this paper describes a dataset simulated from an ensemble of 48 physics configurations of Noah-MP" rather than "this study presents a 48-member ensemble simulation." (2) in the introduction, L79 is revised as "we have enriched the NLDAS-2 four-model ensemble ...", (3) L91 is deleted, (4) we added a sentence at the beginning of the last paragraph of the introduction "We have previously evaluated runoff and compared it with NLDAS. This paper describes the estimation of all the TWB variables." and (5) in the conclusions, the first sentence is revised as "this paper describes a dataset of TWB over the CONUS."

RC: Line 104: Can you talk more about the “pitfalls”?
AR: For instance, Fei et al. (2021) found that the ensemble members generated by naive perturbation of the Noah-MP physics are not independent enough from each other. The low independence hinders the skill gained from the ensembling method. The finding suggests that advanced techniques of physics perturbations should be developed to maximize the ensemble skill and minimize the ensemble size. We added these sentences in the revision.

RC: Section 2.2: Why these parameterizations are chosen? Can they represent the full range of uncertainty? Besides, I think the introduction to parameterizations can be moved the appendix. As a dataset description paper, these technical details could weaken the readability of the paper for most readers.
AR: The processes are selected as they directly control runoff generation and evapotranspiration and have shown their importance in global simulations. Limited by computational resources, we have not perturbed the parameterization of the cryosphere hydrological processes such as snow albedo (Chen et al., 2014, doi:10.1002/2014JD022167; He et al., 2019, doi:10.1029/2019JD030823) and rain-snow partitioning (Wang et al., 2019, doi:10.1029/2019gl085722), which may limit the usage of the dataset in cryosphere hydrology. Section 2.2 is revised to clarify the criteria. The results show that the uncertainty range would be sufficient for variables other than transpiration, groundwater storage, and snow water equivalent. The discussion is added in Section 4.1 and the conclusions. Technical details are moved to Appendix A.

RC: Line 279: Is this recursive spin-up in a single year?
AR: Yes. We revised the sentence for clarification.

RC: I have some doubts about Sections 3.1 and 3.2. I think there is a mistake. In Eq 34, you should not subtract r_clim (see Eq 8 in Dirmeyer et al., 2006). Otherwise, r_clim is subtracted twice in Eq 37. For the subscript t in Section 3.2, I did not find any explanation (please correct me if I made a mistake). To be honest, the two sections use more equations and symbols than Dirmeyer et al., (2006) but make the same concept much less straightforward and harder to understand. Probably the authors want to use more symbols to make the definition clearer, but it turned out making things worse from my opinion. I suggest that the authors reorganize these sections.
AR: Thanks for pointing out the error. We revised Sections 3.1 and 3.2. r_clim is deleted from the two equations. It is a typing error and does not affect the analyses. We revised the two sections and used fewer symbols for clarification.

RC: Section 3.5: I understand that the reference datasets are important. But this section is too long for a dataset description dataset on ESSD. This can be a distraction from your core dataset. I am wondering whether you can remove some contents or move some contents to the appendix.
AR: Thanks for the suggestion. We condensed the contents in the revision and moved the correction of TWS in Appendix B.

RC: Line 492: Can you explain it more clearly?
AR: We corrected the statement here. In NE, MA, and OH, Noah-MP underperforms NLDAS in both the annual cycle and interannual anomaly. The underperformance is mainly due to Noah-MP having a higher variability than GRACE. The Differences in the variability between Noah-MP and GRACE could be resulted from: (1) Noah-MP overestimated the variability due to unsuitable parameter values. For instance, specific yield is an important parameter. The parameter is calibrated to 0.2 from a global simulation. The parameter value may not be suitable for these RFCs. (2) GRACE may underestimate the variability in these coastal RFCs. The data experience signal leakage from the ocean. The leaked signal can lower the temporal variability. We revised the abstract and conclusions accordingly.

RC: Figures 5 and 6: According to the second column, Noah-MP EM is not notably better than NLDAS EM. Can you explain how this affects the results in the third column? Besides, the statement “four estimates’ arithmetic average outperforms the three-model NLDAS ensemble mean at almost every NASMD site” is not always true (e.g., Fig. 6c and 6f). I suggest adding some quantitative statistics in the figures (e.g., the median value, or the ratio of positive values). This will make the comparison more straightforward.
AR: We added the ratio of positive value in the second and third columns. "Almost every" is changed to "most." The performance of Noah-MP EM significantly affects the results of the third column. As added in the revision, if the Noah-MP ensemble mean already outperforms the NLDAS ensemble mean, the ratio of the positive values in the third column is approximately 100%. If the Noah-MP ensemble mean underperforms the NLDAS ensemble mean, the ratio is approximately one-third (one-fourth) for the annual cycle (interannual anomaly).

RC: Figure 7: The figure caption is unclear. Besides, I think you mean “difference” (Line 524) instead of “relative bias” in the figure caption.
AR: Yes, it is "difference". Thanks. The caption is revised.

RC: Line 530-532: Any explanation?
AR: We added a Quantile-Quantile plot in the revised Figure 7. The plot shows that both Noah-MP and the NLDAS models tend to underestimate SWE in most areas but overestimate it when snow is extremely thick (SWE > 400 mm). Noah-MP performs better than the NLDAS models in most cases. The superiority of Noah-MP is likely attributable to the tree-layer snowpack module, which can provide a more smooth transition from shallow to thick snow than the single-layer Noah and Mosaic snow module and the quasi-two-layer VIC snow component. Detailed examination of the spatial correlation reveals that the superiority of Noah-MP over the NLDAS models appears in all elevation bands but is the most significant between 1000-2000 m with a spatial correlation of 0.85 versus 0.38. If the elevation is below 1000 m (above 2000 m), the spatial correlations are 0.77 versus 0.76 (0.89 versus 0.75). The discussion is added in the revision.
